So this code works and
it does make another reusable
component that we can use
in a number of places.
But it's very unwieldy and
this is where SASS comes in we can
actually use a SASS loop to make
this this code more palatable.
If we're just writing CSS,
then we're done at this point,
it's a little ugly, but it works.
And anybody using our component
doesn't have to come into contact with
his ugliness.
Cuz it's all encapsulated inside
the CSS that styles, this pie chart.
But if we actually to
go one step further and
make the code a little more
maintainable with SASS, we can do that.
So, SASS allows us to work to
use SASS variables in names
of properties as well.
So what we're going to have to do is,
we're going to have a SASS loop
from i from one through five.
And then we're gonna use this i variable,
And remember we need
the interpolation syntax anytime we
use a variable into a less common context.
Property names,
custom property value, selectors,
all these things require interpolation.
So it's color and i.
And then,
let's take one of these examples and
we're going to parameterize it.
So here we have color one,
which we are going to replace
with color i and
then here the hue, we wanted to,
Be i times 25 and at this point,
I think we're pretty
much done with the colors I
should be able to remove this.
Note that here we've done one through
five, so this should give us 25, 50 and so
on, it doesn't give us zero.
So we could subtract 25 or we could
just go with this different colors,
I'm gonna subtract 25 for now.
I used i without the dollar here.
If nothing changes, we've done it right.
Yes, excellent.
Some of the repetition is gone.
Now, we need to get rid
of this repetition with
values as well, so
how are we gonna do that?
Let's take value2 and
parameterize it here.
A lot of it is similar,
we're just gonna 2 replace two with i and
here we're gonna replace 1 with i minus 1.
And then we're gonna replace
two with i again here,
the problem is,
what happens with the first one?
We don't have a value zero, we've provided
a zero fallback here let's
make it 0% here as well.
Actually that that was what it needed,
yeah.
Especially since we don't actually
have a value zero property, so
we do need a fallback for that.
Because we are fully aware
that our first declaration,
we'll have a property that doesn't exist.
Let's take a look so see the compiled CSS,
we have a value zero that doesn't exist.
So, let's go back to the SASS, so
now we've removed a lot of the repetition.
And the remaining repetition
is this list of color stops,
so at this point we might say, okay,
we're done here and we could move on.
But if we want to remove
that repetition as well
we could use what's called lists in SASS.
And we could have a list of stops and
then here,
In the loop for each stop, And
then in the loop,
we build a list of stops for
the gradient by using the append function.
So the append function takes
the actual list name and
then the color and the two positions.
So let's take one of the actual
color stops we have and
parameterize that and
to make them a little bit more uniform.
We can actually add a zero to the first
one that doesn't change anything.
So we could go here,
change this, take this, And,
Instead of one, we want our installer i
And then same here, instead of value1,
we want value i and
then we also need to specify
how we're appending.
So we specify comma because we
want these to be comma separated.
And let's see what this produces.
Actually right now won't produce
anything because we haven't,
output stops anywhere yet.
So let's go to the gradient and output
the stops list, so we output stops here.
We need to use the interpolation
syntax again but
as we can see,
let's look at the compiled CSS.
All our stops are right there.
It's exactly the same as if we
had canned coded them well,
except the formatting would
have been better but who cares?
Except with a lot less repetition and
if we want to support 15 color stops
instead of five, we can do that.
We can just increase one number and I mean
we're not going to need more than that,
right?
We're not gonna need more
than 15 slices at that point
the pie chart would get unreadable.
So it's very at this point
it's a very customizable
pie chart with how many lines of code,
18, that's all there is, 18 lines of SASS.